# random-mtj
A repository for simulating random number generators based on magnetic tunnel junctions.

## Getting Started

It is suggested to use Conda to set up a virtual environment when working with this repository. Alternatively, it is possible to use virtualenv and install the required packages from the `requirements.txt` file.

### Using Conda
Make sure Conda is installed. Then run the following command to create an environment based on the `environment.yml` file. (This is only necessary to do the first time you set up this repository on a new computer.)

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

Then activate the environment by running

```bash
conda activate random-mtj
```

If you have made changes to the required packages, run this command:

```bash
conda env export > environment.yml
```

Then

```bash
pip list --format=freeze > requirements.txt
```

### Using virtualenv

Create the virtual environment. Install the required packages using the following command.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Examples

Have a look in the `examples` folder. There are Jupyter notebooks available that explain how the random number generators (RNGs) work and how we are modeling magnetic tunnel junctions (MTJs). Additionally, there is a benchmarking notebook, where we determine the randomness of the MTJ RNGs.

## How to Contribute

It is suggested to use the [command line tool from GitHub](https://cli.github.com/) to authenticate and clone this repository. Once installed, run the following command (and follow the on-screen instructions) to log in with your GitHub account.

```bash
gh auth login
```

To clone this repository, run the following command:

```bash
gh repo clone trondhauklien/random-mtj
```

If you are using VS Code, it is advised to use the [Git Graph extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph) to get an overview of the repository history. This also makes [branching](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell) easier.

If you have made some changes to the repository and are eager to share them, create a branch and name it clearly (only using lowercase letters and dashes). Commit your changes and write a descriptive commit message. Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

